ECE Workstations Lab Introduction: Fall 2024

An account on the ECE Workstations Lab has been set up for you for your course
work.  Here are a few notes about using this system:

-your username is your UTORid, and the initial password is set to your student
	number.  Please use the "passwd" command to set a proper password
	ASAP, as this initial default isn't too hard for someone else to
	figure out, and dealing with a subverted account is a huge waste of
	your time and mine.  Send email to "tim@eecg.utoronto.ca" if you
	have account difficulties or to report any system problem, but only
	TAs and the instructors can help with course work questions.

-the ECE Workstations Lab machines are named "ugNNN.eecg.utoronto.ca, and are
	located in GB243 (ug132.eecg - ug180.eecg), GB251E (ug226.eecg -
	ug249.eecg), SF2102 (ug201.eecg - ug225.eecg), and SF4102 (was SF2204)
	(ug51.eecg - ug80.eecg).  The current door code is 16384.

-remote use of all Lab machines via ssh is possible, plus ug250.eecg and
	ug251.eecg are older machines which can be used for remote
	access only, and ug252.eecg and ug253.eecg are new remote-only
	CUDA-equipped servers.  VNC is the usual GUI remote access method:
	the "ece297vnc" command script plus the ECE297S tutorial at
	<https://www-ug.eecg.utoronto.ca/~tim/vnc-scripted.pdf> makes this
	pretty easy, or there's an older tutorial version at
	<https://www-ug.eecg.utoronto.ca/~tim/vnc.pdf> which goes into more
	detail.  Use "ruptime -l" to find the least-used machines.

-the Lab computers currently all run Debian "Bookworm".  The standard desktop
	is "MATE" (pronounced "ma-tay": it's a South American plant & drink),
	which is a continuation of the old Gnome2, but there are minor
	differences.  For instance, the standard terminal program is "MATE
	Terminal", which is found in the Applications => System Tools menu.

-note that you have a home directory disk quota, which you can check with
	the "quota" command, and "du -sk * .??*" will tell you exactly where
	your space is being used.  Connect remotely via ssh (not VNC) and
	clean up if you accidentally go over the limit.

-course accounts will go away again after the end of the term, so please
	make your own copies of any material you wish to keep.  Accounts for
	those in ECE undergrad and MEng programs last for the duration of
	program enrollment.
